Update Envio Solutions on Rootstock (#997)
rsksmart/devportal: content/rsk-devportal/solutions/envio.md

---
menu_order: 2100
menu_title: Envio
title: 'Envio - Solutions on Rootstock'
description: 'Connect envio to Rootstock.'
tags: envio, explorer, rootstock, blockchain, tutorial, rootstock
layout: 'rsk'
---

Envio is a modern, multi-chain EVM blockchain indexing framework speed-optimized for querying real-time and historical data.

Envio offers native support for Rootstock and has been designed to support high-throughput blockchain applications that rely on real-time data for their business requirements.

<div align="center"><img width="50%" src="/assets/img/solutions/envio/envio.png" alt="envio Solution"/></div>

## How it Works

Envio’s feature-rich indexing solution and data infrastructure provider for fast and flexible access to real-time and historical data for any EVM including Rootstock⚡.

<div align="center"><img width="90%" src="/assets/img/solutions/envio/envio-diagram.png" alt="envio Solution"/></div>

## About Envio

> [Envio](https://envio.dev/) is a feature-rich indexing solution that provides developers with a seamless and efficient way to index and aggregate real-time or historical blockchain data for **any EVM,** including Rootstock. The indexed data is easily accessible through custom[ GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) queries, giving developers the flexibility and power to retrieve specific information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Envio](https://envio.dev/) is a feature-rich indexing solution that provides developers with a seamless and efficient way to index and aggregate real-time or historical blockchain data for Rootstock, and **other EVM chains**. The indexed data is easily accessible through custom[ GraphQL](https://graphql.org/) queries, giving developers the flexibility and power to retrieve specific information.
```

Envio offers native support for Rootstock and has been designed to support high-throughput blockchain applications that rely on real-time data for their business requirements.

Designed to optimize the developer experience, Envio offers automatic code generation, flexible language support, quickstart templates, and a reliable, cost-effective hosted service.

> Indexers on Envio can be written in[ JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com/),[ TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), or[ ReScript](https://rescript-lang.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indexers on Envio can be written in [JavaScript](https://www.javascript.com/), [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/), or [ReScript](https://rescript-lang.org/).
```

> ## Envio HyperSync

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Envio HyperSync
```

> Envio supports[ HyperSync](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/hypersync) on Rootstock mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Envio supports [HyperSync](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/hypersync) on the Rootstock Mainnet.
```

> HyperSync is an accelerated data query layer for the Rootstock blockchain, providing APIs that bypass JSON-RPC for 100x faster syncing of historical data. HyperSync is used by default in Envio's indexing framework, with RPC optional. Using HyperSync, application developers do not need to worry about RPC URLs, rate limits, or managing infrastructure. They can easily sync large datasets in a few minutes, something that would usually take hours or days using RPC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HyperSync is an accelerated data query layer for the Rootstock blockchain, providing APIs that bypass JSON-RPC for 100x faster syncing of historical data. It is used by default in Envio's indexing framework, with RPC optional. Using HyperSync, application developers do not need to worry about RPC URLs, rate limits, or managing infrastructure. They can easily sync large datasets in a few minutes, something that would usually take hours or days using RPC.
```

Envio supports indexing on Rootstock and **any EVM-compatible blockchain**, enabling Rootstock developers to:

* [Contract Import](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/contract-import): Autogenerate the key boilerplate for an entire Indexer project off a single or multiple smart contracts. Deploy within minutes.
* [Multi-chain Support](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/multichain-indexing): Aggregate data across multiple networks into a single database. Query all your data with a unified GraphQL API.
* [HyperSync](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/overview-hypersync): To ensure blazing-fast retrieval of historical on-chain data and a seamless developer experience, Envio’s HyperSync endpoint allows for 100x faster indexing than standard RPC.

* [Asynchronous Mode](https://docs.envio.dev/docs/async-mode): Fetch data from off-chain storage such as IPFS or contract state (e.g. smart contract view functions).

* Quickstart Templates: Use pre-defined indexing logic for popular OpenZeppelin contracts (e.g. ERC-20).

> [Start building on Rootstock](https://envio.dev/app/login)

Reviewer: Use the a <a></> for this button. See the courses page for an example

Author: Done

## Getting Started

Developers can choose whether they want to start from a template (e.g. Blank, ERC-20, etc.), or use the Contract Import feature: 

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Prerequisites

The following are the prerequisite packages required for Envio:

* [Node.js](http://node.js) (use[ v18](https://nodejs.org/download/release/v18.18.0/) or newer)
* [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/installation) (use v8 or newer)
* [Docker Desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop/)

Docker is required specifically for running the Envio indexer locally.

> ### Install Envio

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Installation
```

  [x] Deposit(address indexed from, uint256 indexed tokenId, uint256 amount)
  [x] NotifyReward(address indexed from, address indexed reward, uint256 indexed epoch, uint256 amount)
  [x] Withdraw(address indexed from, uint256 indexed tokenId, uint256 amount)
[↑↓ to move, space to select one, → to all, ← to none, type to filter]
```

**Specify which chain the contract is deployed on**

```
? Choose network:
 <Enter Network Id>
  ethereum-mainnet
  goerli
  optimism
  base
  bsc
> rootstock
v polygon
[↑↓ to move, enter to select, type to filter]
```

**Enter the name of the contract**

```
? What is the name of this contract?
```

**Enter the address of the contract**

```
? What is the address of the contract?
[Use the proxy address if your abi is a proxy implementation]
```

> _**📣Note**: if you use a proxy contract with an implementation, the address should be for the proxy._

**Select the continuation option**

```
? Would you like to add another contract?
> I'm finished
  Add a new address for same contract on same network
  Add a new network for same contract
  Add a new contract (with a different ABI)
[Current contract: BribeVotingReward, on network: rootstock]
```

> The Contract Import process will prompt the user whether they would like to finish the import process or continue adding more addresses for the same contract on the same network, addresses for the same contract on a different network or a different contract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Contract Import process will prompt the user whether they would like to finish the import process or continue adding more addresses for the same contract on the same network, addresses for the same contract on a different network, or a different contract.
```
